[Music]
if you are in a position where you can't
fail you are also in a position where
you will never be fulfilled
and so when i finally figured that out
it was okay
i need to go chase something that i can
fail at not to fail but because of the
possibility of failure guaranteeing that
i will and i will grow from it
as much as i knew that intellectually i
make this sleep i leave what i knew for
what i needed
and in doing so
dealt with the identity shift challenges
dealt with going from being the primary
breadwinner to my wife
just wildly eclipsing me went from the
status of a big company in a nice
business card to something of more of a
startup
and it was
so jarring to everything that i knew
that what had been a casual relationship
with alcohol turned into a not so casual
relationship with alcohol
[Music]
hey everybody welcome to impact theory
today's guest is the ceo of the hollisco
one of the fastest growing media
companies on the planet he's also the
former president of theatrical
distribution for disney who was
responsible for launching some of the
most dominant film franchises the world
has ever seen including the string of
box office juggernauts in the avengers
series the most recent episodes of the
culture defining star wars franchise and
such mega hits as frozen and beauty and
the beast
now if that list of titles alone doesn't
already boggle your mind consider this
during his tenure at the house of mouse
he orchestrated the release of what has
gone on to become
nine out of the ten highest grossing
films of all time
but that was just the beginning since
leaving disney in partnership with his
unbelievably talented wife and business
partner rachel hollis this dynamic duo
has built a brand that went from 6 to 60
employees at breakneck speed and is now
globally recognized for touching the
lives of millions of people on the daily
and as if that wasn't already a
herculean task he's also the on-air
co-host with rachel of a morning show
that's viewed by over a quarter of a
million people per day the co-host of a
live variety show that's about to hit
800 theaters co-producer of an event
series that draws thousands and
thousands of people from all over the
world the co-producer of a smash hit
documentary called made for more and
much much more so please help me in
welcoming this ridiculously accomplished
father of four and author of the
incredible book get out of your own way
a skeptic's guide to growth and
fulfillment dave hollis
what's up brother
welcome man thank you thank you for
having me dude thank you for being here
you are one of my favorite humans i am
super excited to have you in that chair
i think this is going to be a lot of fun
you are one of my favorite humans i am
so grateful for the invite and i am
excited to chat about all the things
let's do it man let's start with being a
skeptic i actually find it kind of cool
and interesting that you came to
personal development and
and growth sort of uh
drug kicking and screaming so
walk me through why do you call yourself
a skeptic
do you remain skeptical what what's that
journey been like yeah i mean i
interestingly i grew up inside of a
faith community that
put some
taboo around listening to teachers that
if not holding a bible
could sometimes be seen as sacrilegious
and so like from the very very earliest
formative years there was a little bit
of careful who you listened to so that
is where it started
i've i think tended to be a little more
of a practical pragmatic person just
generally and so
skepticism runs a little bit as an
undercurrent of my wiring
in a way that with a bit more of a fixed
mindset had me not really even
considering that someone reaching for
growth or development didn't in some way
indict them for being broken or less
in the first place and so
there were plenty of tools that existed
that could have helped me all through my
journey
and yet because of a little bit of how i
was raised in faith a little bit of how
i was raised in masculinity a little bit
of how just the world
informed me thinking that self-help was
in some way for broken people i was
skeptical and it honestly it took my
wife walking into a journey
for me
to first be incredulous and then see
some of what was working for her to have
me ask a better set of questions
so
how did you navigate that going from
you know this this is for broken people
to think this actually is kind of cool
i had to get super stuck i wish it was
like a better answer than i had to get
super stuck but i found myself in this
strange bridge
between 30 and 40. where for the first
time in my adult life things at work
were going so well that it was actually
working against me i'll come back to it
but i in not really being as challenged
as i had been previously found myself at
this threshold birthday
asking why i'd been afforded certain
gifts but wasn't in a position to have
to fully use them
and one day i'm out back with my kids
attending to a ritual of ask dad
anything i got three boys and now a
daughter and
they usually were asking ridiculous
things looking for ridiculous answers
and i just committed hey i'll answer any
question whatever it is
and my middle son asks what are you most
afraid of
and out of my mouth he's looking for
scorpions or tarantulas and out of my
mouth falls
not living up to my potential right like
this idea that i've been afforded gifts
but at the end of my life could look
back with regret
and in an interesting way as i was in
this station of stock
it started
a want to not be stuck so when you say
that you're stuck this is the period
where you're feeling like the job is too
easy that you're not really being pushed
is that what you mean by stock yeah so i
came into this last job of my 17 years
at disney which was the head of sales
for the studio i'm putting these movies
in when i first got the job disney had
just acquired pixar so now it's disney
and pixar but two years later marvel
studios comes into the mix two years
after that here comes lucasfilm and now
the responsibility i have though it
comes with the trappings of the title
and the access and the academy and
anything else
selling avengers in star wars to movie
theaters it turns out
wasn't necessarily the hardest thing
because of the quality of the team that
was surrounding me the strength of the
intellectual property
and so
i'm getting straight a grades but i'm
not studying for a single test
and that dissonance is creating in me
this
man am i truly fully utilizing the
skills and tools that have been afforded
me
and what it provoked actually i mean
like i wish i could say like oh i can
cast a vision of some positive
thing in my future and use it for
leverage but i am i'm dark i have to go
to this place where i was imagining here
i'm just turning 40 my 60th birthday
party
so now here's the 60th birthday dinner
my adult children now are sitting around
the table
and they've been asked to raise a glass
and represent to me and everyone who's
assembled what they're proudest of
and
at that time i could see there was one
of two ways that dinner could go
that i could either have a dinner where
they were raising a glass truly proud
for me having pushed myself into spaces
of discomfort intentionally so that i
might grow
or a dinner where some of them didn't
show or if they did they didn't have
anything to say
and the idea that i could in the next 20
years let my kids down became this
who cares what you think about personal
development you better go figure out how
to get yourself out of this hole
because if you don't
you know how the dinner ends up
dude you're the only person i've ever
heard talk about negative visualization
i'm actually glad that you called the
book a skeptic's guide to growth and
fulfillment because i actually think
it's interesting that you still do
retain your you're obviously
wholeheartedly into growth and
development but you
uh you retain a
an eye a critical eye to some of the
tools and techniques that i respond very
well to
um
and i i've talked to people about like
there's power in the darkness and i
think there actually is power in the
negative visualization and sometimes
looking at the beautiful things you want
to do sitting in gratitude they are
really powerful tools but they're not
the only tools um have you used negative
visualization in other ways like is that
still something that you oh yeah
i mean
there's a 45 minute
montage at my funeral
like it's long
and it's one of two movies
and i can stay connected to people not
caring about the 45 minutes that play
because of me having wasted the rest of
my life
because i am not i just don't have this
like my wife happens to have a furnace
of motivation burning inside of her
every day
and i can't i don't relate to it i can't
connect to it
and so when i wake up in the morning and
i don't want to do it i have to stay
connected to wanting to have the movie
play the right thing i had this
opportunity to take a few days to just
get clear
and
it was right around the new year
and i went back and thought of every
time in the last two years
five years
that i was at a low point
and i wanted to try and find the common
denominator of what it was at that low
point
so that i could
every time it maybe started to present
itself keep it from happening
and i found that there was unbelievable
consistency in each of my low points and
that is
i had either proclaimed to myself my
family my employees or the world that i
was a certain thing
and then i showed up as something that
was disconnected from that thing
and the dissonance between who i said i
was and who i knew myself to be in the
privacy of my own head as my head hit
the pillow
that dissonance was pain with shame was
unfulfilled potential and regret
and so i am on a mission to close that
gap
like every day my alarm goes off
it is an if then statement right if you
say
that you want to be this thing if you
are legitimate in your claim that this
is who you are now
then you better get your ass out of bed
get your shoes on and get out in that
garage gym right like i'm right now
getting ready to head out on the road
for this tour to support this book and
man i am excited for it
but i've done the if-then equation if i
want to have the energy that has me
fully present and pouring into the
audience then i got to get my health
right i got to get my mind right i got
to get my spirituality right like my
health all of the health have to be
whole
it's it's if i if i didn't right because
i'm good enough to actually convince
them of whatever it is that i want to
sell them but i'd know
right and the dissonance between
them believing that i am actually who i
say i am and me knowing that i am that
that's where pain is and by the way
that's also where the skepticism comes
from right because
anyone who has any ability to be a
little perceptive inside of this space
knows the people where the dissonance
exists they're selling you something
but
when their head hits the pillow and
yours you both know that they aren't
exactly what they say they are
yeah that is something that i have
experienced equally in my own life so i
talk a lot about congruence like that
when you say something and in fact this
goes to what you talk about with
motivation hacks so uh to me one of the
hacks you can use is to say something
out loud that you want to become true
and then by having said i'm moving
towards this i want to become that kind
of person if you're not acting in
accordance with that that pain that
dissonance that you're talking about
kicks in and makes people act in a
certain kind of way i want to go back
when you said that
rachel wakes up with just like this
furnace of motivation but you don't have
that i think there are so many people
like literally the number one question i
get asked is how do i
stay committed to something how do i go
after that thing and i'm always like you
have to build desire so what are your
motivation hacks
to
stay
amped up to wake up every day to
actually give a enough to become
that person because you've got these
lofty goals so it's going to be hard all
the time
so how do you
stay
going it's two things right so it's on
the one hand
in just incredible consistency like the
habits that we have the morning routine
that we have it is non-negotiable it
starts at 9 00 pm the night before like
my morning routine starts at 9 00 pm
right if i
want the life i say i want
then i have to be asleep by 9 pm because
i have to be up by 5.
and if i don't get sleep i can't have 2
o'clock in the afternoon happening the
way i want so it starts at 9 and i have
a meticulous routine that when my alarm
goes off
i i am a cyborg
it's not there's no conversation there's
no snooze i walk immediately to the
exact same place every day because
that's where my shoes are
and my workout stuff is i move from
there immediately to where the green
juice is immediately from there to where
the produce it like i just go in a very
much like methodical beat by beat
step-by-step routine but the second
thing is
i am perpetually trying to find
something
physically that i can push myself
further through
to show myself that i am capable of more
than i believed i was capable of and
this has become a newer hack over the
last couple of years as i've truly tried
to be my own catalyst for the momentum i
want in my life you got to talk about 29
20 29 20 29 29 it's crazy so 29
out of 29 like we get done with 2019 and
we're sitting around a table and the
question is what was the most important
singular event of the entire year my
wife and i got recommitted 15-year
wedding anniversary side of a hill in
ireland that was her answer
i wish i'd have gone
second
because my answer was completing this
physical challenge
because in this 29-029 it's a
unbelievable endurance event and it's
more about mind than it is even
physicality
you're ascending the 29 000 feet that
would equal everest
13 times as it turns out in the place
that we were at in utah up a hill at a
very steep pitch that for hour and a
half hour 45 minute intervals of the
hardest workout i've ever been through
you're pushing through 35 consecutive
hours of effort
and
when i was like two or three a cents in
i was 100
certain that it was not a thing i was
capable of
and when i finished that 13th climb and
could put on this red hat that they give
you
i now had reframed what my body was
capable of i reframed what my mind was
capable of how did you go from certain
you weren't going to make it to actually
doing it that's a pretty big shift
especially in the middle of pain and
suffering well in in one way i have as
an accountability partner and best
friend a woman who is wired unlike most
of humanity right so she was like
okay you can die in a ditch here at the
bottom i am gonna just keep climbing and
the idea that she might continue without
me
super motivating i would also happen to
be the beneficiary of someone who's been
here
serendipitously riding down on the
gondola gondola with us on the second
after the second ascent colin o'brady
happened to have just been walking up
this hill
and though we had no concept of who he
was as we were walking up the hill
we're sitting in this gondola and he
says oh yeah hey my name's colin oh kill
what do you do i just walked across
antarctica and unaided i'm like oh
are you a cyborg sent back from the
future are you made of skin too
and when i realized that like this human
truly has the same humanity as i do was
capable of spending 54 days of time
pulling a sled
a switch went off and i was like you
know what
if he can do that i can walk up this
hill 11 more times
and i just decided that i was going to
do it
that that's such a cool moment
especially because knowing colin's story
day one he breaks down crying he's like
i'm never going to be able to finish
this and so to go from like crying i
can't do this to setting a world record
and beating the guy that was essentially
racing him by some ungodly number of
hours days i think
because he just finally
found his sort of mental space to occupy
and then went after it it is really
interesting to me when somebody can do
that just full stop but when you can do
that in the middle of the pain i find it
really really interesting and what i
love is
uh again using that like yo i don't want
my wife to do this and i'm wishing out i
think that's really powerful and i think
a lot of people hide from how useful
that is yeah
and then you know hearing that hey
somebody else can do it i'll say this
too i mean like this is how much of an
imprint this thing had
for the last six ascents i mean like the
better part of half a day
i did
one thing
in through the nose i said the word
stronger out through the mouth i said
the word better had ski poles and that
is the only thing i did i became
a robot walking up that hill
i said stronger as in in this step i am
becoming a stronger human being i then
said better i will be better for having
completed this challenge
i said it so many times i got the words
tattooed right here on my arms because i
needed a reminder that when i face a
challenge that feels
mentally more challenging than i believe
is possible for me to complete or
physically beyond the limits of my
capacity that i am stronger and will
become better for having endured
whatever that thing is i used it in
completing my first marathon i will use
it as i am getting ready to do my first
iron man
i'm not looking for like the hundred
mile race necessarily
yes
i'm gonna say here's the thing the rate
you're going right and the headline is
i
came into the idea of pushing myself
physically
with some limiting beliefs around what
was possible for someone with my frame
that i'm too tall to run was a story
that had been told to me
for
years and years of my life i didn't run
a single mile until i was 36 years old
whoa one single mile
and in this last year i've run a
thousand miles that's crazy so literally
literally 1 000 miles on the road and so
it's just you know if there's something
in a story that was given to you through
the lens of someone else's fear
you have to test the hypothesis of your
truth
and i man i now am in this you know
position every single day of
well
i didn't think i could climb that
mountain so
i did it and now i believe i can go do
other things dude we've got to go back
to the statement that you just made
about you've got to test the hypothesis
of your truth that is so rad and
i think that people get so stuck and
they believe something and they never
test it so how do you systematically
begin to one identify that you have a
truth
except that it's a hypothesis and then
how do you go about testing it
well i've had to do a lot of work i mean
like it began for me honestly in the
midst of being stuck i sat on a couch
across from a stranger in therapy as a
vehicle for my
more pragmatically wired brain to
understand why
right i want to understand why i do the
things i do
and sitting with a therapist was a way
for me to get a set of answers to my
behavior because it was not something
that was living on my conscious level it
was in my subconscious and through a lot
of verbal processing a little bit of
journaling and sitting in front of a
stranger who would listen
all of a sudden some of the y's start to
show up this is so interesting so i get
asked a lot about like or i'll get asked
questions to which the punchline is
self-awareness
but i always struggle a little bit to
help people figure out like how
does one become more self-aware so
therapy is something that you used i
think that's really interesting and i'd
love
so i wanna let's wrap this in a larger
framework of becoming more self-aware
but let's go a little deeper on therapy
for a second so
most people would
balk at therapy it feels like going back
to your thesis about
you know i thought that
self-help was for people who are broken
people assumed that therapy is for
people who are broken so how did you
overcome that and then what were you
hoping to get out of therapy yeah i
walked into therapy thinking it was for
broken people
and at the time because of my
station i was stuck
so i was comfortable saying all right as
a stuck person maybe i'm broken what i
realize is
none of us are broken we have seasons of
brokenness but aren't broken
and that therapy as much as i may have
entered it with a negative stigma
attached to it
it was a gift not just for people who
are experiencing a season of brokenness
but for full and whole people that are
interested in having a fuller bigger
version of their life
it was truly though for me this pursuit
of
like finding answers i was really in
like really interested in why
i feel like i am stuck though to the
outside world as the president of
distribution of the walt disney company
as the father of three healthy children
as the husband to an amazing woman who
has this house and car and i mean like
the optics
they're good
and yet the feeling inside was bad and
the the lack of congruence in this
instance of me feeling the way i thought
i ought to
gave permission to sitting inside of a
space that i'd previously assigned some
kind of negativity once i sat in the
seat
forget it it was
beautiful it was a gift and if anyone
has any reservations at all to therapy
here's the headline it's going to be
hard when you first get in there because
you're dealing with a bunch of stuff
that you don't want to have to deal with
but once you push past the first six
weeks of time
it is like writing in a journal
where you are dealing with the conscious
thoughts for the first 20 minutes
but if you write in a journal
for an hour
the things that come up in the 30th
minute and the 50th minute are things
you didn't even know existed
but a lot of times people won't let
themselves get past the 15th minute they
get bored oh there's this all this stuff
i already know how do you journal
effectively
i journal by sitting down with a blank
piece of paper
and i start writing what is in my head
and the first 15 minutes or so is more
about my day and more about my marriage
and more about my kids and things that
are sitting on the top layer of my
consciousness
and then when i'm not expecting it
something comes up
that oh my goodness where did that come
from and i start pulling on that thread
without even thinking about it and
what's beautiful about it to me and is
the same kind of experience inside of
therapy
when you're saying these things out loud
you are taking the weight of them living
as a worst-case scenario inside of your
subconscious and actually now getting to
ask a better set of questions around
whether the things that you think or the
things that you have fear for or anxiety
if they're actually real is this
actually a thing that should be weighing
me down holding me back
is there really a chance of this being a
thing a lot of the time it was for me
attached to the worry of what other
people were thinking
and when i was able to actually either
get it on paper or say it out loud
i was given this gift of this clarity
that no one literally no one cares about
what you're doing and that is an
indictment on the people in your circle
it's a statement of their humanity we
all care first about ourselves
and i was given the gift
even though i waited a long time to
leave of
worrying about what it might mean to
leave a job that meant so much the
framework that i was leaving in disney
to go pursue this
opportunity with my wife
was confusing to people and i stayed in
the job longer than i would have because
of the worry of what they might think
and the gift i was given in leaving was
the appreciation of how little
anyone was actually thinking about me
once i was gone again not an indictment
on them as people a recognition of their
humanity
i want to better understand
how the journaling becomes in therapy
quite frankly how it becomes uh an
element of self-awareness is there so
i've never done therapy talk therapy
i've done a lot of journaling
when you're doing talk therapy are they
sort of
pointing out like patterns that are
allowing you to then recognize those
patterns like how does it go from i'm
just articulating to oh i now have a
growing awareness of what i'm like yeah
i mean for me it was a lot more of i
feel statements i feel like and then i
was able to ask is that feeling
real or is that a byproduct of some
memory is it a byproduct of some way i
had to be when i was young
and the prompts that i would get are the
same that you might get in a personal
development kind of setting where you're
being asked
my my first personal development
conference same kind of question of uh
who did you have to be when you were
young and you know like whose love did
you crave and who'd you have to be for
that like those kind of questions as you
start following those threads you
realize oh
i've been achieving all of these years
for the affection of this person and
it's like imprinted on me in a way that
makes me believe that the only way love
will show up in my life is through me
achieving for that love
and whatever version of that is for you
if you had to be a certain way as a
younger person or you've had
relationships that went sideways and you
in the bad experience of that
relationship took something
and had it sink in as a truth that was
not actually true
it informs a little bit of what you now
take on as a part of your self-identity
and the the opportunity in that therapy
or the opportunity in journaling at
least for me is to pull those things to
my consciousness
and actually ask if there's truth and
weight to them in a way that if they
live underneath just sit as
fear insecurity and
ridiculousness a lot of times
so
it's very impressive when somebody frees
themselves from the shackles of what
other people think i'm guessing that you
still struggle with it you now have
mechanisms to protect yourself against
it um
what do you do on a daily basis so
you've had the big epiphany they fall
into these three buckets you know most
people you just need to let it go but it
still stings like when people say
something that you know says hey you're
up or you're broken or whatever
what's your internal process when that
happens
well
it used to be grabbing a drink i'll be
honest like i would be triggered by
someone saying something and i'd grab a
drink to mute a little bit of the
insecurity
it sometimes could provoke an imposter
it could provoke all kinds of things and
i would grab a drink i've tended now to
run because
my process
of being out on the road for a length of
time
is giving me the benefit of time like
truly taking time before i have a
reaction has been singularly the most
important thing but two
there's something therapeutic about
the way that my body moving in nature
outside with that run
allows me to actually think through
is this real or is this imagined
is this real is like the is the number
one question for me to ask
and
99 times out of a hundred
it is not real like
this person has a problem with me okay
is their opinion something that really
deserves a front row seat in my life
and if there are people with cheap seat
tickets that i am affording front row
seat opinions that's a me problem
sometimes a it's a run but sometimes
it's just asking that question does this
really matter is this fear is this
opinion
real and if the answer ends up being no
does it still sting does it still hurt
yes but if you can take a beat and
actually deconstruct it you tend to get
free or faster uh it is crazy the
physical transformation that you've gone
through so getting your body moving is
huge
to getting your mind in the right place
have you read um the book spark by john
ratey no oh you'll love it dude so
in the book he talks about how yo you
have a kid that's struggling with math
make them do pe right before math and
judge p entirely by how high they get
their heart rate so don't judge them by
like whether they finish a mile in a
minute or six hours it's where was their
heart rate and so if they're pushing
their heart rate up hitting a certain
level of their vo2 max whatever the hell
the the heart rate percentage was based
off of
then they get a good grade because
they're you know they're really pushing
themselves and he said if you do that
you will see that they will perform
better in that next class because
getting
getting the body moving stressing the
heart in a positive way
actually makes people perform better
cognitively which i think is really
really interesting um talk a little bit
about
one the the continual escalation of the
running that you just hinted in your
prep for an ironman which is pretty
extraordinary but i also want to hear
about the promise that you made yourself
about drinking yeah
so
i
in an interesting way knew
intellectually
that the thing i needed
was a thing that would be uncomfortable
right i how did you know that that's so
powerful well most people do not know
that the number of people when i bring
up cold showers that like crawl
into a hole it's like
that's that's a pretty big thing well i
was given the gift of really
understanding that the connection
between growth and fulfillment and i had
not previously
had my finger on the pulse of that i was
the beneficiary at disney
of unbelievable job growth over time the
first 10 years i had 10 jobs so my
professional add was satisfied on an
annual basis i was perpetually drinking
from a fire hydrant and what i didn't
realize was my fulfillment was about
always being uncomfortable i was walking
into a room of people to whom
they themselves thought they were more
qualified for my job i was asking a lot
of questions and learning a lot on an
every single hour basis
and when i found myself
in this job for what ended up being
seven years though the first three years
were the steepest learning curve i could
have ever asked for those first three
years happened to also be the height of
me being fulfilled
and it wasn't until i sat in therapy it
wasn't until i went to a personal
development conference it wasn't until i
started reading some books that i could
actually put my finger on it oh
you are unhappy and unfulfilled
because
you are not in a position where you are
being challenged and in the absence of
you being challenged it's impossible for
you to be fulfilled i you know i i've i
don't want to undermine or underscore
how hard the team was working at disney
because yep everyone was working hard
but i as the leader of experts
was not in a position to fail
the movies were too good the leadership
was too strong my team was the best in
the entire universe
and so in the absence of being able to
fail i mean could i make a mistake at
times of course but on the whole there
was not a chance for me to fail
if you are in a position where you can't
fail you are also in a position where
you will never be fulfilled
and so when i finally figured that out
it was okay
i need to go chase something that i can
fail at not to fail but because of the
possibility of failure guaranteeing that
i will and i will grow from it
as much as i knew that intellectually i
make this sleep i leave what i knew for
what i needed
and in doing so dealt with the identity
shift challenges dealt with
going from being the primary breadwinner
to my wife just wildly eclipsing me went
from the status of a big company in a
nice business card to something of more
of a startup
and it was
so jarring to everything that i knew
that what had been a casual relationship
with alcohol turned into a not so casual
relationship with alcohol
and i was having drinks to just smooth
the rough edges after a long day
and what i didn't realize as a couple of
drinks was turning into more than a
couple of drinks was that you cannot
mute the anxiety without also muting the
joy
alcohol is not a local anesthetic right
you can't just take care of the problem
without also taking care of any of the
good and so while i knew intellectually
that yep i'm pursuing discomfort for
growth
i was muting
the discomfort
which meant i was also eliminating in
drinking the chance for me to grow which
was the entire reason for me doing this
big shift in my life in the first place
when i decided to write the book
the
edits coming back on the book as the
team grows from five to sixty as my wife
and i are working together for the first
time figuring it out as we're starting
new things in this business that are
holy and totally outside of my
discipline my competency set
i in stacking those things
had a
trouble i had a troubling time with
alcohol and my wife
best one of the best and worst things
about her is the ability for her to be
unbelievably direct
and we had a hard conversation about
what the heck i'm actually doing and so
i've decided on that day
i am not going to have a drink for a
year because i committed to the
discomfort as a thing that i needed for
growth
and the responsibility that comes
with
this job
with my relationship to my wife with
what my kids deserve is that i am sober
enough to actually both experience the
pain of all of this growing and the
identity stuff and everything else but
also show up well for them and so i had
to
identify the triggers where do they come
from and every time one showed up
replace the routine grabbing a drink
with putting on shoes and as evidenced
by the thousand miles
the stresses don't go down even when you
introduce new and better coping
mechanisms the stress is all there all
the time
i've just
changed the way i think about failure in
this business as being a part of what
comes with running a small business
and running as a thing that helps me
process
what basically ends up being failure
happening on an every two or three hours
basis
how do you deal with failure
like what do you so i'm gonna guess that
part of it is gonna be okay this is the
very thing that i need to grow but
there's also and this is what i like
about your message there's a
reality to you've got to build the
business and if you fail 60 plus people
are out of a job so
there's there's the yes like hey
failure's good and i love it and it's
teaching but there's also like i have to
be extraordinary at what i do
so how do you manage that it was
definitely hard in that i
came into this new job thinking that 20
years of entertainment experience were
totally and perfectly transferable what
got me here will get me there
and that mistake
oh man having come out of an environment
where
with as big a team and his competent
team and his established a business
model right it was more trail management
than i would argue what we're doing in
trail blazing and in any kind of trail
blazing startup you know scaling
you're going to fail it's just a
guarantee and yet because i'd come out
of an environment
where failure didn't happen or if it did
it was fixed so quickly by someone with
25 years of subject matter expertise
that when things started going wrong in
our business even though again from the
outside things look successful there's
problems happening in the business i
wore them as
is this maybe a sign that i don't have
the skills to do this job well or am i
maybe going to be exposed as an imposter
who should not actually be doing this
work
and so i at first
took it very very personally
until i had the benefit of sitting
around other people who have spent more
time inside of the entrepreneurial space
to say no no no
this is normal this is wednesday this is
actually what happens here and so like
the generosity of getting to sit with
someone like yourself or i mean we have
uh in john maxwell a person who's become
a fantastic mentor and friend
and he said at one point a leader never
has two good days in a row
like that's just a fact of running a
small business
and so you can either decide i'd like to
run a small business or you can decide
to have multiple good days in a row but
you can't have both right and so like
well what a gift
okay it's not me
it's just like this is the thing that
we've chosen now good news we're two
years in
i can see it as a as you might put it
data rich stream of info right i can see
it that way now but for the first year
i had a really hard time seeing it as
anything other than do i actually even
though i've got this great resume do i
actually have the ability to do this job
as well as i think i can god i hope
people hear that dude so to see somebody
like you
struggle with something like that to
have a imposter syndrome to deal with
the self narrative everybody hears about
but like
this has been part of the fun getting to
know you you are like the most
freakishly unguarded human being i've
ever met in my life it is so
cool and i love it so much because
dude look your accomplishments are
ridiculous
and the fact that you've been able to to
go from one thing to something that that
as you've learned is is wholly unrelated
quite frankly in structure if nothing
else yeah
and
find your way through that to rebalance
yourself to find different coping
mechanisms to find the path to success
is is really really incredible what's it
been like for you to go from typical
male bread winner for a long time in
your relationship and then to have the
roles reversed did that with your
head at all absolutely i mean from
uh the beginnings of this decision
i had only ever been the primary
breadwinner i i'm eight years older than
she is so i was just further along in my
career when we met
as much as we met in the entertainment
business she ended up becoming an
entrepreneur and in that journey yep she
continued to grow her business and it
had ebbs and flows like any business
might but over the 15 years my career
was outpacing some of the growth in her
business to the point that i had as a
part of my identity provider
and so we decided to make this leap and
when the book comes out as much as it
does well it had a very bizarre curve it
ends up by the time i'm leaving the
company
hitting number one and staying at number
one and it opens up so many
possibilities for the business
and to say that my wife in the last year
had a big year would be an
understatement
i think she may have
in terms of provision for the family had
a bigger year in the last year than i
had at the 10 previous years of the walt
disney company and so
i went through
because of it having been so entwined in
my identity
a crisis
where
i thought because of the way that my
salary afforded a backstop for her
taking a chance on some new piece of the
business if she wanted to go into some
space that required capital don't worry
i'm here in case it doesn't get the kind
of return that you're hoping for and i'd
given value
to her loving me
because of the security and the way that
that ended up becoming a part of our
relationship when it was gone
if she doesn't need me will she still
love me became a real thing which sucks
because what it actually says is
she doesn't love me unless or that it's
a contingent kind of love which isn't a
love at all
and so as much as yep it like spun me
down into this place
getting to unpack it actually has
afforded us a chance to appreciating how
great a love we've always had because of
it never having been about who made more
and you know things like that
i will say though like we are in the
midst of
shifting our roles our titles at the
company and what's interesting is when i
was leaving because of how
i
as the man as the person who was leaving
this you know
bigger company for smaller company i'd
put a lot of weight into what my title
was and had pushed her even though she'd
spent 15 years of time as the founder of
this company to be the ceo
and that request of her
was a hard request for her to hear right
there's a lot of pride wrapped up in
having been a female founder we run a
business that is primarily serving women
and so for me to have asked her hey i'd
like to be the ceo was a thing that
because she knew hey i'm looking at this
tipping point to bring in an integrator
operator that can help me the visionary
take this to the next level you have a
special set of skills like liam neeson
come on in right she was willing to
yield
but she did it begrudgingly and did it
because of what for me was very much ego
not anything else driving that need
and it was a little more than a year in
when the distance from the weight that
i'd assigned to other people thinking
certain things about me because of my
title had completely dissipated and beca
in part because of that gift of my
now knowing that nobody was actually
paying attention or thinking about me
that we got back into a conversation and
it was wait a second you as the
visionary this is your company you are
the engine that is driving where we're
headed i am still going to every day
play the role i play as the operator
integrator to help us get there but we
can't get there without the what
you are the what person
i am the how person
but the how person without the what that
doesn't make a company and so we've now
swapped roles and so if you know
anyone who's listening in any way has
struggled with like anything in the ego
space with title especially if you're
working with a partner
that don't matter
you navigate
some insane waters and i will speak from
experience working with your spouse is a
whole beast that requires a lot of
attention and a lot of thought
what are some
marriage tips
well i mean we have a standing date
night every thursday night doesn't
matter what is happening we are going on
a date and there have been plenty of
times i will say especially as we have
worked together in the last two years
where we have gone on dates loving each
other more than we've liked each other
just real talk because they're
in the way that my practical to her
vision roles play there's just an
inherent friction that has to exist for
the benefit of the company that
sometimes is hard to immediately pivot
into an appetizer at a nice restaurant
in austin texas and so
um but staying in inconsistent in that
we value intimacy it is an important
part of our marriage and in that
we make out on the regular even though
we have four kids which is like having a
thousand kids so like we're consistent
with that
we had to when we started working
together fundamentally changed the way
that we have hard conversations with
each other
we had been
in a long part of our relationship a
little more codependent i would say in
how we avoided things that could
potentially tip someone into
a bad mood be something that maybe
created a little bit of emotion and then
the stakes got too high we have too many
things to do there are too many
employees that are now depending on us
to
stay together on this and so
we had to like kim scott's style employ
radical you know kim scott no so kim
scott wrote a book called radical candor
i like it already yep and the idea of
radical candor is if you have a respect
for the person that you are in
relationship with then you owe it to
them in the moment that you're watching
them do something that's outside of
their lane or inconsistent with their
personal brand disconnected from company
values pull them aside and respectfully
give them feedback in a way that can
have them appreciate how they could have
done something better for the benefit of
them actually doing something better and
in the times when it's a big enough
thing
we send emails to each other
articulating very clearly what it is
that we want to make sure we say right
so that the other of us will have the
time to read it
potentially get emotional about it let
the emotion diffuse and then come back
with a reaction that is
something that the other person can
actually hear
very good tip
all right where can people engage with
you and learn more
uh online i'm at mr dave hollis on
instagram dave hollis on facebook the
hollisco.com is where every single thing
rachel and i are doing in our company
can be found
come hang out with us at a live event
jump into some coaching all the things
they're all there
nice
um
final question what is the impact that
you want to have on the world
i want to help people appreciate
this idea that they have to leave the
harbor of safety and security for the
opportunity to grow
i mean i'm i'm crazy it reminds me of a
certain type of right
i'm crazy about i got this tattoo a ship
is safe in harbor but that's not what
ships were built for
i got it as a
promise to my wife
that i wouldn't find myself back in that
place where i was stuck
clinging to things that were safe
anchored to the harbor
not chasing the choppy waters for the
opportunity to grow i got it as a
reminder for my kids
that the only way that they will be
fulfilled
is to push themselves outside of their
comfort zone and do things that
challenge them to chase failure
to fail
so that in failure they will actually
grow and i got it more than anything is
a reminder for myself
because i still wake up plenty of days
unsure if i
can be the captain of this ship on these
choppy waters and i have to remind
myself that i was built for this
i love it man
guys there's a reason that i dig this
dude so much i think his book is
fantastic i think everything that he
puts out in the world is this crazy
blend of vulnerability and
hysterical humor he is hilarious he is
insightful um
dive into his world if you want a chance
to open up yourself gain the
self-awareness that you want learn the
skills that you need to go and do the
things you want to do you will not
regret it of this i assure you and
speaking of things you won't regret if
you haven't already be sure to subscribe
and until next time my friends be
legendary take care
b raw rhode island that was amazing
thanks dude if you have a passion in
your heart fire in your belly it's gonna
be you
it's gonna be you getting up early it's
gonna be you staying up late it's gonna
be you running the miles and and going
to the gym and eating the kale and doing
all the crap that you don't it's only
gonna be you